- [Frank] Most applications cannot be deployed
to just one data center anymore,
and robust configuration patterns are needed
to support this.
The use of environment variables and properties
is one of the most common ways of injecting data
into a running application to Flex by things
like data center or environment.
Spring provides an environment abstraction
that allows you to build applications
that Flex configuration based on environment variables.
The environment within Spring is populated by default
with all of the system environment variables
at the run time of the application.
This environment construct is also populated
and can be supplemented by properties
via run time or by properties files, among other things.
This allows you to provide a set
of default configuration files
that can be overridden at run time,
and there's a very detailed hierarchy of like 15 layers deep
in the Spring documentation on the order
in which these values, when they share a key,
will be overridden.
This is a very powerful tool,
especially in a cloud native world, that I use a lot.
It is also useful in traditional applications
when dealing with multiple environments.
You can use a mixture of properties
and environment variables to manipulate the configuration
as you migrate from Dev to test,
or from data center to data center.
This is how I manage things like URLs of other services,
log levels, and various other run time configurations
within a microservices environment.
So let's take a look at this in practice.
So jump back over into our code here,
and we're going to make a few changes.
The first set of changes we're going to make
is in our OutputService itself.
We're going to create a private final string called name,
and because it's final, we're going to inject it
into our run time via the constructor.
So we will take a string name, and this.name
equals that name, and now we're going to remove that
from our generateOutput method,
and you'll see that it just gets set
from the attribute on the class.
Now, let's jump over here to our application config,
and we're going to create a few properties here,
so the first one that we're going to do
is we're going to overwrite the static string Hello
in our greeting, with a property represented
by dollar sign, curly brace, an we're going to name this one
app.greeting, close that curly brace,
we're going to add another one,
dollar sign, curly brace, app.name, close that curly brace,
always remember to close that.
That's one of the things that I tend to forget
more often than not.
Now we need to provide these values,
so let's take a quick diversion,
and in source main resources, we're going to create
a new file, we will call this application.properties.
In the app.properties, we're going to create an app.name,
I'm going to set it equal to my name,
and an app.greeting, and I'm going to set it equal to Hello.
Now, let's jump to our application config class,
and let's finish this up.
So you'll see that when we created
our OutputService Bean now, we have an error,
and we've got an error because we need to inject name
into that constructor, and that's going to come
from those properties,
and we also want to inject our greeting
into our greetingService.
So that's the basics of getting that set up,
now there's one more change that we need to make,
we're going to add a PropertySource annotation
to our configuration class, and we're going to load that
from classpath colon, application.properties.
So this will tell Spring to read the classpath,
which source main resources is on the classpath,
and find a file called application.properties
to read that data.
Now the final change.
Go into our application class,
and you'll see that generateOutput is showing up
as having a bug, and that's because we no longer need
a string when calling that method.
So now if we execute this,
we're going to see the output that we saw before,
but we're now injecting it from properties files.
And indeed we do.
No need to let that run for 25 seconds,
so we'll stop that.
So now I want to override this,
so I'm going to use environment variables
to override the property.
Now, IntelliJ gives me a very easy way
to edit my configuration.
Your ID most likely has the exact same setup
at a different place,
but I'm going to come in here, and I'm going to set
some environment variables.
And the first one that I'm going to set is app.name,
and I'm going to set the name equal to Partner,
and now I'm going to set an app.greeting,
and we're going to say Howdy.
So these environment variables will be provided
to my application through this run configuration.
Can also do this through exports and various other methods,
but for now, this is sufficient.
So let's run this application once again.
And what we expect to see is what we indeed do see,
which is Howdy Partner is coming in from the environment,
and it's overriding the properties,
and that's exactly what we do
when we deploy Spring applications to multiple environments
or multiple data centers.